# MyOS - develop and share command line environments

[Blog post about MyOS](https://cdevn.com/my-os)

## High Level

Uses Docker + Docker Compose to provide a consistent and reproducible build environment. Base image assumes the minimum while still being useful out of the box.

## Usage

### Assumptions

Everything depends on `myos` base Docker image. This image is available on Dockerhub, but you may also build it using the included Dockerfile.

The default `docker-compose.yml` mounts your hosts `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` file into the running container. This is what allows the openSSH server to authenticate you when you connect. This means you will need an `authorized_keys` file in the correct location with any keys you want to be able to use.

> Ctrl-D is the most sure fire way of getting out of the container

### Setup

1. Install the CLI

```bash
$ npm install -g myos
```

2. Create a new template project

```bash
$ myos init ./template
$ cd template
```

3. Start the container

```bash
$ myos create fooName
```

4. Connect to the container

```bash
$ myos connect
```

### Advanced usage

Assuming you've already installed the tool, my personal configuration can be used to test out MyOS.

1. Clone my personal MyOS config

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/rylandg/rylandg-myosfiles
```

2. Create a MyOS based on my setup

```bash
$ cd rylandg-myosfiles
$ myos create rysetup
$ myos connect rysetup
```

## API

### Init
`myos init <dir>`

Creates the initial templates that the default `docker-compose.yml` expects. These are...

```bash
# vim
vim/binds.vim
vim/helpers.vim
vim/plugins.vim
vim/vimrc
# zsh
zsh/.zlogin
zsh/.zprofile
zsh/.zshenv
zsh/.zshrc
# tmux
tmux/tmux_saves
tmux/install_tmux.sh
tmux/tmux.conf
```

These files are empty (for the most part). You're expected to add your environment specific settings.

### Create
`myos create <name>`

Runs `docker-compose up -d` from the current directory

### Connect
`myos connect`

Connects to a previously created MyOS environment


### Restart

`myos restart <name>`

Restart a previously created MyOS environment

### Remove

`myos remove <name>`

Remove a running MyOS environment

## Features

* Configuring locale and colors
* Creating a non-root user and setting necessary permissions
* Setups OpenSSH for password-less login
* Enabling X11 Display server
* Super light, highly optimized base Ubuntu image
* Mechanism to "safely" run multiple processes
* Init for running your user process as PID > 1
* OpenSSH server out of the box
* ZSH
* HTop
* Vim8 with clipboard support
* Latest Tmux built from source
* XAuth and XDisplay packages for clipboard support


## Issues/planned changes

* Very vim focused, would like to see if its possible to support other editors (definitely Emacs)
* Needs CLI command that allows you to copy another users MyOS environment
* Multiple MyOS environments should be able to run simelataneously
* SSH key for authorized_keys could be autogenerated
* Potentially move away from NodeJS for CLI